When the fire broke loose and the modern way to turn off the overwhelming fire is to get a fire extinguisher. This common safety measure in almost every high rise building must have item has a chemical base to substitute the large number of water that can turn off a fire in any quantities. There is the danger of coming in contact with Examples Of Extremely Flammable Chemicals.

Advantages and disadvantages of fire extinguishers


While there is various type of fire extinguishers such as dry powder, foam, and several other\ types. All poses the same goals which are to eliminate fire and give very powerful extinguishing effects.

There are various advantages and disadvantages of each type on how to handle fire and the compounds that it contains. Here are some of those explanations.

Dry Powder Fire Extinguishers
The advantages of this dry powder extinguisher are it poses as a very good clearing for flames. Therefore, the extinguishing effects are quite durable and adequate to eliminate any unwanted fire.

Moreover, the chemical in it also Frost-resistant which enable the dry powder to set Example Of Transformation Of gas Into Solid Solution. It can do its magic without forming into froze shape that hard to fight the fire of any magnitudes. And its effect also competitive with live equipment.

However, some of the disadvantages of this extinguisher are varied due to operational hazard that may occur during the time of usage. Some of the most alarming disadvantages include:


Colatteral damage, that proven to be the very a lot happen in using this powder base etingushiers. The main element of dry powder act as a conductor when it hit the water base. Therefore, it can easily damage any electronic device and appliance.
The No Cooling Effect Reality stimulate the risk of flame coming back up even after they are put awa. The usage of this extingush pose a high Reignition Risk
Foam Fire Extinguishers
Another popular type of fire etingushers is the foam type. Which emitted foam base in order to fight innormous daner of uncontroable fire conditions. It is among the simplest and easiest fire extinguesher to operat. You can see this type of extinguisher all over buildings such as office, schools and other public places.

The light extinguished base allows this type of fire removal to have long spraying time. Moreover, it also can have very limited collateral damage, unlike the powder base ones. It can also extinguish live equipment better up to 1000V, which is also higher than the capacity of common powder extinguishers. Moreover, the most important advantage of this feature is its ability to reduces the risk of re-ignition by having the proper cooling mechanism.

It works better to work in class A and B fire. Where Class A refers to a solid source of combustion such as paper and wood. While, Class B is a common reminder of liquid petrol, diesel, paint, and other flammable material.


However, Of course the long list of, advantages come with a price. Foam extingusher is very epensive due to all of its modern features. This fact accordance with the fact the products poses with all the positive advantages.

There is a danger when it comes to Chemicals In Flame Retardant and the only similarity foam distinguishers have with its look-alike powder extinguisher is it is not frosted resistant.

Foam Fat Extiguisher
This foam base extinguisher pose all the advantages that foam based extinguisher have but with ore extra benefit. It is multi function that enable the operator to use this extingushier ore frying fat and oily fires. Some of the harders source of fire to conquere.


And most important part is that it overcome the lackness that foam extinguisher have faulted for. It is frost-resistant which is an of Example Of Gas Turning Into A Solid matter come in handy in various situation.

The only disadvantages of this multipurposal and rich advantages type of etingusher is its price. The expensive chemical base with all its pisitivities contain expensive pricing. 

CO2 Fire extinguishers
Some of the advantages are the item is frost resistant, can exitngush thigs effectively in quite adequate time frame. And the most important element that people need to consider is iths ability to prevent huge colateral damages. CO2 matter in extinguisher is an example of various Uses Of Carbon Compounds Related To Their Properties.

Sadly, The sophisticated type of extinguisher come later as the development of other type of extinguisher. Terefore, it is likely to pose some very cnverning reports.

Difficult to operate. People need special training before able to apply this kind of extingusher. Therefore, it is not suitable for
Harmful for human and animals. The toxic chemical can put dorn any fire but also have the suffocating effect on living creatures. In direct contact it can cause various health issues such as burn wound from frost bite, skin irritation and other mild skin problems.
Usage issue. The extingusher itself is heavy, it is twice as heavy as the other extinguishers on the market. Moreover, people using this extingushier also learn that the effect on fire does not stay for long. So it is harder to put out fires. 
Water Fire Extinguishers.
The first ever extingusher that people develop to overcome fire. It is a compilation of easy base chemical which makes it very cheap in the market. Moreover, it is the best estinguisher agent for solid objects that there is no guanrentee it will ever happen in other part of th house.

Water extingusher only suitable for class A fire that come from wood or paper based material. In modern era where every thing in the house have metal, flammable material, the use of this extingushers is almost unusable. By using water base ectingusher, people are prone to get a high rick of electocution if near electrical instalation which there days is harder to avoid. There is almost no household, office building or public place that doen not run on electricity.

So, in the end the various option of extingusher can be assosiated with the neccecity of a different building scheme. If you are living in your house and looking for the cheapest extinguisher or if you are looking for multiple extinguishers for your office, you would probably ended up different kind of extingusher,  There are advantages and disadvantages from all type as a major aspect to considers.
	
	
	
